README.md, before:

External repository for Bitcoin Core related maintenance tools.

github-merge
------------

A small script to automate merging pull-requests securely and sign them with GPG.

For example:

```bash
./github-merge.py 1234
```

(in any git repository) will help you merge pull request #1234 for the configured repository.

What it does:
* Fetch master and the pull request.
* Locally construct a merge commit.
* Show the diff that merge results in.
* Ask you to verify the resulting source tree (so you can do a make check or whatever).
* Ask you whether to GPG sign the merge commit.
* Ask you whether to push the result upstream.

This means that there are no potential race conditions (where a
pull request gets updated while you're reviewing it, but before you click
merge), and when using GPG signatures, that even a compromised GitHub
couldn't mess with the sources.

Setup
---------
Configuring the github-merge tool for the bitcoin repository is done in the following way:

    git config githubmerge.repository bitcoin/bitcoin
    git config githubmerge.testcmd "make -j4 check" (adapt to whatever you want to use for testing)
    git config --global user.signingkey mykeyid

If you want to use HTTPS instead of SSH for accessing GitHub, you need set the host additionally:

    git config githubmerge.host "https://github.com"  (default is "git@github.com", which implies SSH)

Authentication (optional)
--------------------------

The API request limit for unauthenticated requests is quite low, but the
limit for authenticated requests is much higher. If you start running
into rate limiting errors it can be useful to set an authentication token
so that the script can authenticate requests.

- First, go to [Personal access tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens).
- Click 'Generate new token'.
- Fill in an arbitrary token description. No further privileges are needed.
- Click the `Generate token` button at the bottom of the form.
- Copy the generated token (should be a hexadecimal string)

Then do:

    git config --global user.ghtoken "pasted token"

Create and verify timestamps of merge commits
---------------------------------------------
To create or verify timestamps on the merge commits, install the OpenTimestamps
client via `pip3 install opentimestamps-client`. Then, download the gpg wrapper
`ots-git-gpg-wrapper.sh` and set it as git's `gpg.program`. See
[the ots git integration documentation](https://github.com/opentimestamps/opentimestamps-client/blob/master/doc/git-integration.md#usage)
for further details.

clang-format
------------

A script to format cpp source code according to the .clang-format file in the bitcoin repo.
This should only be applied to new files or files which are currently not actively developed on.
Also, git subtrees are not subject to formatting.

Note: The script is currently untested and unmaintained, but kept for archival reasons, in
case it is planned to be used some day.

build-for-compare
--------------------

Build for binary comparison.

See `build-for-compare.py --help` for more information.

Builds from current directory, which is assumed to be a git clone of the bitcoin repository.

**DO NOT RUN this with the nocopy=1 flag set on working tree if you have any local additions, it will nuke all
non-repository files, multiple times over. By leaving nocopy off (default) the git tree is copied to a temporary
directory and all operations are performed there.**

Example:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin.git bitcoin-compare
cd bitcoin-compare
../bitcoin-maintainer-tools/build-for-compare.py 4731cab 2f71490
sha256sum /tmp/compare/bitcoind.*.stripped
git diff -W --word-diff /tmp/compare/4731cab /tmp/compare/2f71490
```

backport
--------

Script to backport pull requests in order of merge, to minimize number of conflicts.
Pull ids are listed in `to_backport.txt` or given on the command line.

Requires `pip3 install gitpython` or similar.

unittest-statistics
--------------------------

`unittest-statistics.py` can be used to print a table of the slowest 20 unit tests.

Usage:
```bash
unittest-statistics.py </path/to/test_bitcoin> [<subtest>]
```

For example:
```bash
unittest-statistics.py src/test/test_bitcoin wallet_tests
```

treehash512
--------------

This script will show the SHA512 tree has for a certain commit, or HEAD
by default.

Usage:

```bash
treehash512.py [<commithash>]
```

This should match the Tree-SHA512 commit metadata field added by
github-merge.

signoff
----------

This is an utility to manually add a treehash to the HEAD commit and then
gpg-sign it. This is useful when there is the need to manually add a commit.

Usage:

```bash
signoff.py
```
(no command line arguments)

When there is already a treehash on the HEAD commit, it is compared against
what is computed. If this matches, it continues. If the treehash mismatches an
error is thrown. If there is no treehash it adds the "Tree-SHA512:" header with
the computed hash to the commit message.

After making sure the treehash is correct it verifies whether the commit is
signed. If so it just displays the signature, if not, it is signed.

subtree updates
---------------

Bitcoin Core comes with several subtrees (c.f. https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/tree/master/test/lint#git-subtree-checksh)
To update the subtree, make sure to fetch the remote of the subtree.
Then a simple call should pull in and squash the changes:

```sh
git subtree pull --prefix src/${prefix} ${remote_repo} ${ref} --squash
```

For setting up a subtree, refer to `git help subtree`.

check-dnsseeds
---------------

Sanity-check the DNS seeds used by Bitcoin Core.

Usage:

```bash
check-dnsseeds.py
```

Example output:

```bash
* Mainnet
OK   seed.bitcoin.sipa.be (40 results)
OK   dnsseed.bluematt.me (33 results)
FAIL dnsseed.bitcoin.dashjr.org
OK   seed.bitcoinstats.com (50 results)
OK   seed.bitcoin.jonasschnelli.ch (38 results)
OK   seed.btc.petertodd.org (23 results)
OK   seed.bitcoin.sprovoost.nl (35 results)
OK   dnsseed.emzy.de (41 results)

* Testnet
OK   testnet-seed.bitcoin.jonasschnelli.ch (36 results)
OK   seed.tbtc.petertodd.org (38 results)
OK   testnet-seed.bluematt.me (5 results)
```

fastcopy-chaindata
-------------------

Fast local copy of Bitcoin Core blockchain state.

```bash
fastcopy-chaindata.py ~/.bitcoin /path/to/temp/datadir
```

This utility hardlinks all but the last block data file (rev and blk),
and hardlinks all .ldb files to the destination. The last data files as well
as the other leveldb data files (such as the log) are copied.

This relies on the fact that block files (except the last) and ldb files
are read-only once they are written.

Warning: Hardlinking only works within a filesystem, and may not work for all
filesystems.

Commit message:

Move update-translations.py from bitcoin/bitcoin repo

README.md, after:

External repository for Bitcoin Core related maintenance tools.

github-merge
------------

A small script to automate merging pull-requests securely and sign them with GPG.

For example:

```bash
./github-merge.py 1234
```

(in any git repository) will help you merge pull request #1234 for the configured repository.

What it does:
* Fetch master and the pull request.
* Locally construct a merge commit.
* Show the diff that merge results in.
* Ask you to verify the resulting source tree (so you can do a make check or whatever).
* Ask you whether to GPG sign the merge commit.
* Ask you whether to push the result upstream.

This means that there are no potential race conditions (where a
pull request gets updated while you're reviewing it, but before you click
merge), and when using GPG signatures, that even a compromised GitHub
couldn't mess with the sources.

Setup
---------
Configuring the github-merge tool for the bitcoin repository is done in the following way:

    git config githubmerge.repository bitcoin/bitcoin
    git config githubmerge.testcmd "make -j4 check" (adapt to whatever you want to use for testing)
    git config --global user.signingkey mykeyid

If you want to use HTTPS instead of SSH for accessing GitHub, you need set the host additionally:

    git config githubmerge.host "https://github.com"  (default is "git@github.com", which implies SSH)

Authentication (optional)
--------------------------

The API request limit for unauthenticated requests is quite low, but the
limit for authenticated requests is much higher. If you start running
into rate limiting errors it can be useful to set an authentication token
so that the script can authenticate requests.

- First, go to [Personal access tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens).
- Click 'Generate new token'.
- Fill in an arbitrary token description. No further privileges are needed.
- Click the `Generate token` button at the bottom of the form.
- Copy the generated token (should be a hexadecimal string)

Then do:

    git config --global user.ghtoken "pasted token"

Create and verify timestamps of merge commits
---------------------------------------------
To create or verify timestamps on the merge commits, install the OpenTimestamps
client via `pip3 install opentimestamps-client`. Then, download the gpg wrapper
`ots-git-gpg-wrapper.sh` and set it as git's `gpg.program`. See
[the ots git integration documentation](https://github.com/opentimestamps/opentimestamps-client/blob/master/doc/git-integration.md#usage)
for further details.

update-translations
-------------------

Run this script from the root of a repository to update all translations from Transifex.
It will do the following automatically:

- Fetch all translations
- Post-process them into valid and committable format
- Add missing translations to the build system (TODO)

clang-format
------------

A script to format cpp source code according to the .clang-format file in the bitcoin repo.
This should only be applied to new files or files which are currently not actively developed on.
Also, git subtrees are not subject to formatting.

Note: The script is currently untested and unmaintained, but kept for archival reasons, in
case it is planned to be used some day.

build-for-compare
--------------------

Build for binary comparison.

See `build-for-compare.py --help` for more information.

Builds from current directory, which is assumed to be a git clone of the bitcoin repository.

**DO NOT RUN this with the nocopy=1 flag set on working tree if you have any local additions, it will nuke all
non-repository files, multiple times over. By leaving nocopy off (default) the git tree is copied to a temporary
directory and all operations are performed there.**

Example:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin.git bitcoin-compare
cd bitcoin-compare
../bitcoin-maintainer-tools/build-for-compare.py 4731cab 2f71490
sha256sum /tmp/compare/bitcoind.*.stripped
git diff -W --word-diff /tmp/compare/4731cab /tmp/compare/2f71490
```

backport
--------

Script to backport pull requests in order of merge, to minimize number of conflicts.
Pull ids are listed in `to_backport.txt` or given on the command line.

Requires `pip3 install gitpython` or similar.

unittest-statistics
--------------------------

`unittest-statistics.py` can be used to print a table of the slowest 20 unit tests.

Usage:
```bash
unittest-statistics.py </path/to/test_bitcoin> [<subtest>]
```

For example:
```bash
unittest-statistics.py src/test/test_bitcoin wallet_tests
```

treehash512
--------------

This script will show the SHA512 tree has for a certain commit, or HEAD
by default.

Usage:

```bash
treehash512.py [<commithash>]
```

This should match the Tree-SHA512 commit metadata field added by
github-merge.

signoff
----------

This is an utility to manually add a treehash to the HEAD commit and then
gpg-sign it. This is useful when there is the need to manually add a commit.

Usage:

```bash
signoff.py
```
(no command line arguments)

When there is already a treehash on the HEAD commit, it is compared against
what is computed. If this matches, it continues. If the treehash mismatches an
error is thrown. If there is no treehash it adds the "Tree-SHA512:" header with
the computed hash to the commit message.

After making sure the treehash is correct it verifies whether the commit is
signed. If so it just displays the signature, if not, it is signed.

subtree updates
---------------

Bitcoin Core comes with several subtrees (c.f. https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/tree/master/test/lint#git-subtree-checksh)
To update the subtree, make sure to fetch the remote of the subtree.
Then a simple call should pull in and squash the changes:

```sh
git subtree pull --prefix src/${prefix} ${remote_repo} ${ref} --squash
```

For setting up a subtree, refer to `git help subtree`.

check-dnsseeds
---------------

Sanity-check the DNS seeds used by Bitcoin Core.

Usage:

```bash
check-dnsseeds.py
```

Example output:

```bash
* Mainnet
OK   seed.bitcoin.sipa.be (40 results)
OK   dnsseed.bluematt.me (33 results)
FAIL dnsseed.bitcoin.dashjr.org
OK   seed.bitcoinstats.com (50 results)
OK   seed.bitcoin.jonasschnelli.ch (38 results)
OK   seed.btc.petertodd.org (23 results)
OK   seed.bitcoin.sprovoost.nl (35 results)
OK   dnsseed.emzy.de (41 results)

* Testnet
OK   testnet-seed.bitcoin.jonasschnelli.ch (36 results)
OK   seed.tbtc.petertodd.org (38 results)
OK   testnet-seed.bluematt.me (5 results)
```

fastcopy-chaindata
-------------------

Fast local copy of Bitcoin Core blockchain state.

```bash
fastcopy-chaindata.py ~/.bitcoin /path/to/temp/datadir
```

This utility hardlinks all but the last block data file (rev and blk),
and hardlinks all .ldb files to the destination. The last data files as well
as the other leveldb data files (such as the log) are copied.

This relies on the fact that block files (except the last) and ldb files
are read-only once they are written.

Warning: Hardlinking only works within a filesystem, and may not work for all
filesystems.
